When it comes to, if you don't mind just writing your name on that. Just for my record, so I just don't have on the bottom for the student. That's just so I have everybody's name spelled correctly and relationship.

Superintendent search, I think.

As well. Oh, okay. Yeah, anybody helping with the service? Oh, okay, they're waiting till later in the year so that the new superintendents are at the beginning next year. Oh, okay, so? And I don't know if you've ever.

Thank you, sir. Oh, that's okay. Okay, so what I like to do before getting started is just explain the process and answering questions. Okay? So, first of all, my name is. One of the things I do if I was is when a district has the need for superintendents hearing vote.

Contact my office and ask myself here in okay. So as hearing officer, my job is to determine. Did the defense occur that our led to have occurred, and if so, what would be inappropriate? Under the circum. I make a recommendation with the superintendent. So the way that I conduct hearing is I start ever recorded here under the while we have to create a record.

It's not turned on yet, but I'll turn it on once we get started. Um, and so I have everybody go around state your name relationship to Wyatt. Why it, what is your turn? Just say your name. Um. And then. I'll know that before we have a record took some time to explain process.

I'll show you a couple of documents which will show you these now. There's four here in total. Um. The first is, I guess, there were two original. Yes, that maybe doesn't have quite as much information. Um, and so then the other two are. Just the revised notices. I understand, okay, you'll notice I've marked them up.

Top is here in Oxford. The other 1A characters were changed when he's done right for just from reading through them. It looked like there was not a really any detail as to what you have occurred. Yeah, so that's why the new one. So? And what happened, and he was still spend it.

When I told the police officer that exactly what happened when the next day or one day, I believe it was you. I spoke to, I told him that, you know, they're bullying about why it was at school and that that's what of light up to this and? I don't know if you guys investigated it.

So, let me sorry with you. Let me just get there and finish, explain the process, and then we can start like hearing. And then, all of that information is valid and certainly worth, including. Okay, so let's make sure that's on the record. And parents receive copies of these prior to the beginning.

That's my understanding. I got it. Yeah, okay. And then, I'm sir, just to clarify that which one is the amended. If the Tubi correct, okay, that was the initial one, and then this one we see. Yes, okay. So, I only include the original ones because they exist. So, just have a complete record.

I like to include them. So, I'll show you those on the record and have you both confirmed that you received them prior to today. Uh, and then I read the charge into the record. Okay? Before I do that, I like to explain what's in that notice. So, you'll see there, um, there.

There's a it's number one through seven, maybe about halfway down the page. That's a paragraph that sets for it. Why it's right in the education law? So obviously a direct to be here today. If you company by his parents Guardian, he has their hate to be represented by an attorney.

If he chooses, he has the right to present any have been on his own behalf or. Ask questions or cross-examined any Witnesses at the district they call. Um, he has the right way of the hearing and had the right to appeal any decision. Okay. He fucks any questions about those rights.

Those are straight out of the statute, so section 32, 14 of the education laws would covers this whole process for evidence. Can you guys take, um, like PDF files, and like digital copies of them? Yeah, we have. I've been get like collecting pretty much everything that I can sure for him.

And I have a bunch of it. Okay, so when, um? Once we go through those, what I do is, I read the charge into the record. Typically, I ask a student to enter. That's his. Yeah, that's the main one that we have is his. You know, she did a really good like?

Rendition of the entire thing with? Well, so um, I typically ask the student to admit the conduct or deny the conduct. In other words, that it happened, or did it not happen, right? If the student denies the conduct or please not guilty, then the district presents in the evidence they had to try to prove what happened.

Um, and so the standard in these hearings is substantially incompetent evidence. So if you think of a criminal proceeding which this is not, you know, it's beyond Reasonable Doubts of saying it. It's like. Yep, okay. So, um? So the district would present any evidence. You guys would have an opportunity.

Like, I said, ask questions of any Witnesses of the district calls when the district's done presenting its evidence. You don't have an opportunity to offer anything that you would like in terms of evidence, whether it's witness testimony, why it's testimony. Um, he said, some documents any documents that you like to offer.

At the conclusion of the factual portion as I call it of the hearing. My job is to then determine. Did it happen? Did it not? If I find that it didn't happen. Typically, that's the end of the hearing, right. In essence, that would be finding a student vacuum. If I find that it did happen, or I find the student guilty?

Um. The next, basically, hearing is what I call the penalty phase, but? We have kind of this intermediate stuff here because Wyatt, as I understand it, is. Deemed to be a student with a disability. Yes, purposes of student discipline at least. Um. So, what that means is we? Pause in the middle of the hearing.

And the manifestation team meets with you folks to determine whether or not the conduct. Um, that occurred was somehow was his disability substantial factor in that in that right, or was there a failure? For example, the implement the IEP. Yes, there's that was an issue as well, right. After evidence of both of those perfect, so the manifestation team will meet with you folks to try to determine those two things right.

We'll come back together when that's over. All right, I don't participate in that at all. I'm not part of it, but we'll reconvene once that is. That decision has been made. And Mr Gaddad. He will stay for the record. What the finding was, is there a manifestation? Is there notation?

If there is a manifestation, typically, that's the end of the hearing process because? Can't discipline a student because of the disability, right? That's really what it would come home to. So, um, that would typically be the end of it. There are three exceptions to that, and those three exceptions are when there's illegal drugs involved when there's a weapon involved possession of a weapon.

Or when there's? A serious bodily injury or serious physical injury that occurs. Just from reading the charge, it doesn't sound like any of those three would apply here. Um, so that would typically be the end of it if a manifestation. If no manifestation is found, why these suspended, just like any student without a disability?

Okay, so then we would go through the penalty. Now, the penalty phase is. Um, it's an important part of the hearing. Like, I said, my job is to make recommendation to the superintendent in my recommendation is based upon the record, which is anything that's offered today. Any statements that are offered any anything that you want to be considered?

Make sure it's included in that part of the hearing if we get to that part of the hearing. Because. Once I make my recommendation the superintendent, it's up to her to decide whether she accepts that recommendation or whether she changes it in some way. Okay. Um. Once you're notified of the outcome, let's just say, for example, that at the end of all of this, why it is suspended for an additional length of time?

And you disagree with. And you want to appeal that you have the right to do that, and you would appeal it to the board of education. Now, the board's review of the matter is limited to the record, meaning they can only consider what happens today in this hearing. Okay, so if there's something that you want, think they should know, or that the superintendent should know, but you don't put it in the record.

So, I always tell parents in the penalty phase. If you're on the fence and you're not really sure, should I say this? Should I not say this? I would suggest offering it only because if you don't, it can't be considered later on. Okay. Make sense. So far, I know it's a it's a lot of information to take in, but um.

So, at the end of the penalty phase, if we get to that point? What happens is you'll? Whether or not? Quiet. But I'm guilty. You're not guilty. You'll know whether or not there was a manifestation or not a manifestation. And then, if we need to determine what appropriate. Appropriate penalty would?

I go back to my office and I prepare a written recommendation for the superintendent. That recommendation will look like I said everything that occurred today in the hearing. All the information that was offered if there's evidence offered. Uh, you know anything at all, including whether or not a manifestation is found.

The superintendent will review that and make it determination and then. Typically. There's always a letter that you'll receive, but you'll possibly receive a phone call as well. Some districts call some districts, just send the ladder. Um, but either way, you'll receive the letter. The letter will indicate that hearing was held.

Here's what occurred at the hearing. Here's what it's from the superintendent, so here's what my decision is. Superintendent is. Um, and then at the bottom of that, it'll stay that you have the right to appeal that decision and disagree with it now. At that point in the later, it'll tell you the time frame within which you have to appeal.

And typically, I think it's 30 days, 30 days from the day you receive the ladder. So, if you disagree with the decision, call it if you want to appeal. Uh, make sure that you meet those time frames. Okay. When you, if you decide you want to appeal, it doesn't require.

You know, anything specific other than just notifying the district and writing that you'd like to appeal. And then, at that point the board, we'll consider. Whatever the decision is and termination. Let's see the board sustains the appeal. So, what that means is they would adjust or modify or potentially expunged the suspension altogether.

If the board doesn't sustain the appeal, meaning that they uphold the suspension. Then, from that point on, you have the right to appeal to the state commissioner of Education. That's a bit more technical. There's more time frames, which you know within their, but they'll say this, the commissioners, the state education department's website has a lot of information about how to go about appealing to the commissioner.

Um. Almost step by step directions and the forms are all there that you'll need. So, I would suggest that that's where you want to start, but you certainly may want to consult with an attorney at that point if it gets to that. So, that's a lot of information or questions.

Do you have for me? Did you? Information. Do they have you know what they had? But here's what I know at this point. What's in the ladders? I've read the letters. I haven't had any conversations about this matter with anybody. You know? I know why it's a fifth grader, at least that's what I understand.

I know that his five days suspension it goes through Tuesday is the last day. Um, and I know what he's accused of having done, given what's in the letters. Okay. That's the extent of what I know. Um. And you know, I like to prevent it easy hearings with? You know out any other information because I can't consider it.

I can only consider what's offered here today, so. Um. Let's look pretty much it. Um. Other questions. Okay. Why do you have any questions, uh, no, okay? You're in fifth grade, right? Are you 10 years old then? All right, if, as we go through the hearing, if there's anything I say that you don't understand, or you have a question about, let me know.

Okay, and the same goes for your books if there's anything. Um, that's happening. You have a question about? If at any point you also would like to? Take a break. Lines be privately with Wyatt or privately amongst yourselves. That's fine too. Just let me know. Pause the recorder. Okay.

All right. I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to turn the recorder on. Um, can I expect those documents back just so I can describe? Thanks sir!

If you see me nervously looking over at my recorder throughout the hearing, it's because it's a new recorder and the second time using it. Yeah, like to make sure it's still going.

Good morning. It is currently Friday, October 10th, 2025. It is 9, 12 a.m. My name is Brian levino. We are here at the Holland Central School District district office. In the Wyatt Hurley matter, I've been appointed to service hearing officers today by the superintendent of schools pursuing to education in law section 3214.

Uh, before we begin the hearing, I'm going to ask everybody in attendance to just note their appearance for the record, including their name and title of the district or name and relationship to the student and why it when it's your turn. If you could just say your name, that would be fine.

Okay. Uh, Carl gaddadi, interim middle school principal. Quiet, early student. Brittany Rogers, mother. Angelo Hurley, father. Jennifer metal.

Um, as I said, my name is Brian Lebano um, before we went on the record today. I did take some time to explain the procedures to everybody in the tenants have answered. Any questions that have been asked, however? I just want to encourage everybody if, throughout the hearing, you do have any questions, let me know.

I'm happy to take a moment and answer those. Okay. All right. As I was explaining the procedure before we went on the record, I also showed. Mr Hurley and Miss Rogers copies of poor documents. For the record. Uh, there is what I'll refer to as the original notice of the superintendent's hearing.

Um. There are two copies, one to Mr Hurley. At 542 Birchwood Square Apartment 8 in Buffalo, New York, and one to Miss Rogers at 6975 Olean Street Lot number, nine South Wales, New York. Um. The letter. Miss Rogers have marked his hearing officers exhibit 1A, the letter to Mr Hurley.

I've marked his hair officers exhibit wouldn't be, and these two documents. It's my understanding that the charge charges that were listed in here didn't include. Sufficient detail, so there were. There was a revised notice that was prepared, uh, I stated October. Again, there's copy. Address Mr Hurley and copy address to Miss Rogers at the same addresses that I read off a moment ago.

The letter to Miss Rogers is marked is hearing officers exhibit 2A. It. The letter to Mr Hurley. I marked his hearing officers exhibit to be these two documents, I believe, are the same as the first two, with the exception of the charges. Um, chart hearing officers exhibit 1A and 1B.

Included charge one in charge two that just simply cited sections of the district's code of conduct, whereas hearing officers exhibit 2A, 2B. Include a little bit more detail if one charge. Um and Mr Hurley. Before we went on the record, you had indicated that you did in fact receive both of these departments previously.

Yep. Miss Rogers. You also indicated to me that you're seeing both these documents previously, yes. Okay, so what I'm going to do at this point is, I'm going to enter all those documents into the record hearing officers exhibit 1A, 1B, and 2A and 2B. Uh, and then I'm going to read the.

Charge from. Hearing officers exhibit 2A and 2B. It's the same charge. I'm going to read that into the record when I'm done reading it. What I typically do is explain the course as the student to admit the conduct or deny the conduct. Um. Before. Quiet Answers. If you wanted a moment to speak with them privately, that's perfectly fine.

Um. Just let me know. Okay. All right. This is from hearing officers exhibit 2A, 2B. Charge number one honor about Saturday, October 4th, 2025, at 5 13 PM. Wyatt Hurley made verbal threats to other students on social media. These ax violated District code of conduct section. Roman numeral 9 e is an Edward engage in conduct that is violent and section Roman numeral 9 actism prank engage in any conduct that enanges, the safety, world's health or welfare of others.

Um. So, at this time before, I ask why I do emitter tonight a conduct. Would you like Mom to speak with them privately? Are you prepared to move forward? Well, what's your definition of violence? Well. And all of these other, like safety, more like a, what's the definition? So?

The definition is that forth in the education law section 3214, however, also in the district's code of conduct. There should be the definition, and there's also examples of types of conduct that would violate those sections of the color.

Under those Stitch. Okay, yes. Now, I mean, yes, but it's also very. It's very mild things that qualify. Yeah, it does violate the. I mean, it is. But it wasn't like, actually, physical violence. It wasn't even really over. He was. Not even on school property. It was far away from these people.

He was, you know, in a different place. So, like? Violence over. The phone. And you know in person are two completely separate subjects, correct? It still does. Well, so yeah. I get the welfare of others part. But. Did not really endanger their safety or maybe their morals, but he did not endanger their health in any way shape or form.

So, so, like he's saying, he's guilty to it. So, like, I guess you're saying, you're guilty, and if they do it, then we go appeal. So, let me just kind of back up and take a step back for a moment. So, with respect to whether or not the conducts violin?

Sometimes that comes up as an issue when? A student has charged with possessing a pocket knife, right, technically possessing a weapon. Um, which are length of a blade, does qualify, even if it's not, you know, used as a laptop. It's just a pocket knife, um, and parents often will say, well, it's not violent, but technically under the law.

Possessing a weapon is considered a violent act in the same as making threats is considered a violent act. It's not. A lot of people tend to think of violence is an act right, like harming someone punching them picking up hanging out. But the way that educational advice is, it's a little bit broader, so things like possessing a weapon or making a threat would constitute X of island act onto the educational law.

Um. Just to be clear, I don't believe that the charge indicates that why? Did anything other than make the threat? That there's no indication that he, you know? Took any steps. Literally fell asleep afterwards. I think as he was so distraught from the day before and after, like. He was.

Really? You know, stressed? So? With all of that being said. At this time. Uh, why, if you admit the conduct, admit that you did what you're used of doing? Because you're accused of making a threat, you understand that. The recorder can't pick up. You're not in your head. So anyway, yes, okay, perfect.

Thank you so you understand that. So, my question for you is? Do you admit that you did that? Yes. And you understand that by admitting that you did that, it's as though you're entering a guilty plea to the charge.

So, when a student admits the conduct in essence or enters a guilty pleat, the district is in. It isn't bad in the position to present evidence to try to prove what happened, but what I do is, I give the districts representative an opportunity to provide a statement summarizing what occurred for purposes of the record, and they can certainly offer anything they'd like that time, and with a district is done, doing that you folks will have the same opportunity to say anything you'd like about what happened about the facts.

Okay. Do we need to read? I mean. There is a recording, right, okay, and it's pretty clear as to what right, I mean, we can read it, but I mean, can we all agree that there is a recording of this statement and it was made, and I mean, instead of going through, and I'm saying that this did not.

I think we can agree. This is, I'm saying that hearing it out of context is like hearing it. Thinking, like this, happened in a vacuum, and this for sure did not happen in a vacuum. Why it did not just pick up the phone that night and say, I'm gonna say these horrible things to random people he studied after being terrorized by who somebody who was his best friend over the last, what the day and a half.

So this was a culmination of all of that. This was somebody backed into a corner and used the only thing they had left was, which was the most violent words he had, so that is all very helpful information to know. As far as whether or not? Statement, or the threat is played.

That's up to the district on what they want. I mean, I think we all have it in print, and yeah, involved it, so I, if we I, I don't, as far as I'm concerned. I don't disagree that these were the words that were spoken and recording. Oh, I've heard it.

I've gone through it for work. Correct. Oh yes, absolutely. So, yes, word. I've even now. Accepted as evidence. I think I've analyzed his tone of voice. We can get to this, like everything nature, but as far as the statements that were made. I think we can all agree those are in the exact.

Transcript of the statements. Okay, I didn't want to have to play. No, that's right. Thank you. We've. I don't want to hear it. So, at this point. Because why it doesn't move the conduct. I'll accept that admission into the record. Um, and we will move forward, Mr idi. We'll provide a statement summarize and would occur for the record when he's done.

He folks have the same opportunity, and that at that point we'll recess for the manifestation determination. Okay. So, Mr Goodyear, this time. Do you have a statement that you'd like to offer because? Um, well, on Saturday. About 7, 45 PM. I received the call from the shares Deputy ashamed, Mr Shane Miller.

And he had torn me that Wyatt. Had. Threatened a couple of kids from the middle school, one in particular. And he sent me the recording, so I listened to the recording and immediately I contact contact superintendent to make her aware that. This is occurring. This happened. And superintendent recommended that we meet on Monday.

Since it was over the weekend where we can. You know, talk about what happened, what occurred, and what our next steps were would? So, from there. It was determined that why it would be immediately suspended? For five days based on the? The audio of what was said, based on.

Deputy Miller's report. And what he did as far as speaking with both parents. And making sure that there were no weapons in the house. Or anything of Natur. So his principle of the interim principle of the middle school? I'm only allowed to spend up to five days and based on.

As I said, the nature of the words that were used in the tone. That why it had on that recording? Um. It was a good indication that. Students were fearful. That, why would carry out some of this stuff? And, uh. And the reason why he was suspended for. Five days pending a superintendent's hearing to determine if a longer period of suspension was warranted or not.

That's it!

Purposes, the record you have a copy of the district's code from them. Yes, I do.

District, I know. Do you have the police report I don't? I don't have anything. But Mr Gaddad. Do you happen to have a copy of the police report? I do what you have to get it needs and names. That's why I filed the foia request. Now, that's why I filed the forehead request.

I do. Here's the topic, which I will guess we're gonna really need to use particular. The area that was violated. Is that what you need to say you need to see the whole code, uh, the whole? For the record, he said, they never called us.

All right, my district on the website, so it's gone. So they're just going to give you a portion of the district code of conduct, but that was relates to the situation. However, the entire quarter pound of this posted. So, for the record in front of me is a copy of the district code of conduct for the 25 26.

Uh, academic Year. I have pages. One through 42.

And then the page that is. Marked and highlighted in my copy is page 21. Where the engagement is violent. It's actually the code is found and page 22 where the engaged and conduct been in dangers. The safety morals help them were welfare of others is fine. I'm gonna mark this as District exhibit one.

And enter it into the record. Anything further? If you would just take a look at e? In that section. About kids TV. And that would be, yeah, 22. Yes to the end page 22, so. And that's on the copy that's provided. That's provided. All right. Thank you anything. That was on the rain.

They got him on the language, so who, um? I'll give you all an opportunity to say whatever you like about what occurred. But um, who would like to begin, Mr Hurley, who indicated you had some sort of say? Would you like to start? Yes, why weren't we notified before any of that happened?

Like, you guys should have, like the police, only called you to get our phone number. Why was the school notified before the parents were even notified. That is, like, with his having the disability that should have never happened. Sore. Are you asking a question or are you just? I mean asking why this?

Yeah, I mean, I'm asking why the school didn't call us first and then decided to do that. So? If you have questions about how it was handled, I'm sure Mr Bernadi would be happy to talk to you about those afterwards. But for purposes of the hearing, do you have any statement you'd like to make about the facts about what occur?

Um, anything like this was in a rendering, but Wyatt was at his father's house Saturday. Um. I guess they forgot to give him his medication, his Vyvans. Which helps keep him level headed and not having highs and lows. It's. He's also uncertainty very important. No, it's not. Yes, it is for him to have.

But he took his meds. He said he didn't like, you might do is. Um, just because we have the recorder going guys. It's difficult to when I'm sorry, okay, if it needs to be transcribed. It's just difficult if there's people talking at the same time. So, um? Why don't?

Um, Miss Rogers. You continue with your statement, and then Mr Hurley. There's anything you want to respond to or say after that. You certainly will have the opportunity, but if we could just kind of one person at a time, that would be helpful. So Miss Rogers, please continue. Um, he came home to me.

On Sunday, I picked him up. And then, on Monday, my one son, Silas, opened up his bag. And his pill was in there. And I asked why it if he had taken his medicine on Saturday and he had told me no? Um. I also received a phone call at like 7 50 Saturday from the sheriff.

I'm asking me if my son was okay. I was really confused. Um, I was, I told him, my son was father, I don't. To minology is okay. He asked if he was on meds. Which, at that time, I did say he is. I didn't know otherwise. Um, they asked me if he was mentally unstable.

I said yes, until he had sent me the recording he private, texted me the recording so that I had it the police officer. Yes, he did.

I just it's detrimental for him to have his meds. Um, and I know how he can get when he's not on.

He is in, um, counseling at the Rock. Um, we had to do another safety plan. With him on Monday. Because of what occurred?

I, I would. I think I would like to interject that. I don't think these statements or anything that will encouraged. Hold on a loud in the home that the racial slurs are. He gets y'all that every single time, he says, anything but correct, correct? I just want to make it very clear that the parents would never support right, you know?

I think that they're yes or anything disappointed in Behavior. They know that these words have. Now, real meaning behind them, and and I think. Just in everything that's happened. And obviously, they have been an outside counseling, and I think there are issues here that. Maybe quote or water need to be addressed?

Manifestation determination meeting usually happens after 10 days of suspension. So, this would be an emergency manifestation determination meeting my understanding. So, a manifestation determination has to take place before a disciplinary change in placement and occur correct, so the disciplinary change in placement is when you get to that 10-day Mark, right?

So, even if a student put in in school suspension or otherwise removed from their placement, their normal placement, which excuse me suspension qualifies, is that? Um, they have to have the manifestation determination, so if there's. A. If there's the potential for the suspension to continue beyond that tenth day, that's why the district does the manifestation.

Now, I might be best boring, but I think what I'm trying to establish here is that why it is a 504 diagnosis and over the course of time his services have been reduced? I don't believe that there's been any formal evaluation for Wyatt since he was five. So, what the parents and I don't want to speak on behalf just a minute or deny.

I think they're the Avenue that we need to pursue. Is that perhaps? Some other things could have been done. I think that is also suggesting there is some bullying or some ongoing things that may have been done. I, I think the parents. Would be interested to be. What are the specific classroom discipline policies?

Has this Behavior been exhibited before by Wyatt? Have we ever seen anything like this before is? Um, you mentioned they are friends. So, why was this type of language? It's a racial slur. Hate to say it this way, but to a child's way understand who is not? Black. Right?

So I, I think what we're looking at is? Perhaps? And I'm trying possibly trying to fast forward, but I do believe that this is. Specific to his disability, and I do believe that. And knowing why. For as long as I've known, why that there might be? A significant dilibit disability that's been not diagnosed.

Maybe something along? Pervasive developmental or autism. He's too young, but bipolar. I just. Again, reassure the district that the parents are not. Unaware, you know, and maybe some things have occurred in the home. You know that the district doesn't see, as well as possibly things that have happened at school that the parents are, you know, not when or the teacher for that man?

So I, I do believe that. That's an Avenue that would need to be investigated, I think. If the district maybe could provide has, why have been evaluated more recently? Five. I know, Brittany, you mentioned his Services were reduced last year. Okay, and so I, we would be interested in pursuing that Avenue, which would then again in a not fast forwarding, but kind of it doesn't.

Any gritty here? Paper manifestation determine me? I, I feel like there's enough evidence on behalf of the parents and possibly the district. That would indicate that this is. Related to his disability or lack of significant diagnosis of a disability that exactly should be in place. So? I don't if I could ask why I had a question.

Um, sure, okay? You want us to step up? No, no right in front of you for the record. Absolutely. Okay, you, you do admit to saying those things. Okay, all right. And did you mention Bryce's your friend? Yes, okay, why did you say those things too, right? Kayden, I'm sorry, Kayden.

I apologize. Kaden, why did you say those things? I don't know, you don't know. Why did you use the N word? I don't know. Do you know what the n word is? Is it bad or good bad? Who do we usually use the N word towards? Okay. So? I, I do believe that there's a lack of kind of.

Social kids are understanding of the depth. Of that. That word, I do believe in you mentioned tone earlier. I do believe, and I think Dad and Mom agree that it was more the utterances and the. Picked at the language is so. Offensive. Was more the word itself as opposed to the meaning.

Which would again kind of support some kind of either. Ppd or Autism? So, I think we're looking to go that route, you know, and and to truly feel that that maybe is the origin of some of these issue, and maybe there's some stuff. Like, I said, that happened. A lot of kids in a class a lot of things to watch and see, so maybe something?

You know? Just got missed, I guess, and and I think Jetta is suggesting there may be some previous bullying and stuff like that, and and? Okay, so. Um. Mr Hurley you? There. I think you were saying some things as. As the other statements were being made, I'm so sorry.

No, that's okay, I just want to give you that opportunity if there's anything else you'd like to. Um, included the record, I know. He made some statements earlier before. We kind of started the hearing about bullying, so if there's anything you want to add about that, do you want to do you tell them what happened like, exactly like?

You have to bite, or should we wait for the manifestation? I think either were you? Maybe if you like to maybe tell exactly, but why in, do you feel like sometimes? Your classmates aren't nice to you. That they don't treat you very nicely or. You can say yes or no.

Yeah, okay. Do they not include you in maybe? When there's free time? Sometimes, okay. Do they ever say anything mean, like? We don't like you or we don't want to get your friends in trouble by telling the people that they bully you and do things to you. Is that what it is?

Yeah, your friends would never be in trouble here. All this meeting. All this talk stays pretty secret just between us, so they would never get in trouble, but you why there's something you want to say? We're about what happened? You can say it here. It won't.

So, there's anything you want to say you can? Well, you and I discussed together, and I wrote out the whole thing that you had told me. So, how are you gonna say that nothing happened?

We discussed. I went through every step of Friday with him. And he told me there was a few incidences that had happened, which I talked to the principle about. Um, and that he was going to discuss with these other students. And can you tell the bottom of it? I have it.

Do you? Is it something you'd like to offer to the record, and you can, yes? Okay, do you have a scent open? I need the PDF.

Are you able to email things from here? Yes! Um, if she emailed it to you, can you print out the statement? Yeah. Do you buy an email yet? I also think I mean, I think the principal also kind of did it word for word because we had spoke on the phone and he was writing it down?

I only am aware is here, an officer as to what is said here today. What is operative of the record, so conversations that have heard, you know, between you and Wyatt separately or between you cannotes? Okay, I don't have any information on that. So, if you would like it considered, please encourage you too.

This, Rogers, if you sent it to me. Can you write your email down so that I could send it? You got it? You have my email address right now. Yeah, they do. They're very here. I sent you all that stuff.

Write it down, not really down.

Holland goes before. Okay. And it's g-u-i-d-o-t-i.

Colony. Csd, okay.org.

Some white curve classroom size. Jeremy students in your class honey? Everything is like 19 or 20.

And this. It's the teacher. District, the teacher. With his teachers, his classroom Orchestra, Mr fircrime. It's not okay. Well, he was here when I was. High school principal, okay? So, and he's just Elementary certified. Yes, okay, is there any? Are there any special ed teachers that? Push. To the classroom.

Why don't if it's already with you? Can we just hold those questions? Oh, sure, manifestation. Just because? Um. I think that we're rather than repeating it again. Okay.

It's not letting me. Why don't, why don't we do this? I'm sorry with everybody. Let's um. Recess. The hearing we've got? Um, all the statements have been made so far. Let's recess the hearing. Transition to the manifestation. Um, while that is taking place. And we can get the email to Mrcadotti.

We can get it printed. So, then, when we resume, even if there's a manifestation final, we'll just make sure that we include that. It's that agreeable. Okay. So, for the record, it is 9 44 am. Uh, we are recessed for the manifestation. Are you? Um, is it going to think pleasing here?

Yes, okay, so I will step out, and um, I will come back. Folks are. Thank you.

I have to like. There's a way to do it. If we go like this, right? To share it. Through email. Yeah, there's a way to do it, and then I write it out, but then it won't let me.

Is that taking place right now? Do I have a moment to run to my car? Yeah, they've got to get everybody together anyways, so I don't know if they're waiting already. But yeah, you should have a minute or two. I have.

Oh yeah.

No, like, I need it right now. Oh. Manhattan to appeal this whole thing.

We're gonna need some more chairs. How many more people are coming well? It looks like, probably your teacher. Is there some others so? It just kind of?

Well, I think they're all waiting in the hallway.

Get it to me. No, it's not. Can't send me anything. You can, you can. Yeah, I'm trying to send it to myself, but it's not letting me send the actual, uh, document to me or anything at all.

Does anybody sitting?

For a crime.

I'm just trying to try.

Correct spelling! Amazing!

You have everybody here.

I'm right here today for our manifestation determination. On the 10 minutes ashita's coming around, you can make sure they're in your name. Um, why? I'm gonna have you signed to at the bottom? I'm sorry you are again. I'm a Buckley. Thank you. And then, um, just make sure we know that one around the round.

So, if you want to be getting your name? Denise Lott. I'm a special education teacher in this case manager at. Differ crime general education teacher. Jennifer. Angela Hurley, dad. Uh, Britney Rogers, mother. Uh, why? Early, um, student? I'll probably daddy, let's go principal.

So the purpose of this meeting is to determine if? But. Display was our behavior was a caused by his disability. And um, if so, or if? Please rules.

Followed up that at least. We'll answer those two questions after we review all the information we have from the people here. Right? So, just to review the description of why it's behavior that resulted in the disciplinary action based on the referral was a threat of school violence directed to a specific students outside of school hours and the date of the referral was October 6th.

But it has a 504 plan, so review the plan right now. Uh, so this plan is, wasn't it started in effect April 26 of 2025 and the plan ends April 25th of 2026? Can I have a copy? Um, can I provide you with this after having it okay? So, um, why?

It's special alerts says that he takes medication daily for hyperactivity to help them sleep. He attends therapy once a week. Additionally, he sees a sleep specialist GI doctor and medication doctor this often godsend to be late to school for globally. On the determination section. Which says it is determined.

It has been determined that the student has an impairment, which would be considered a disability under Section 504. They're Rehabilitation Act and substantially limits a major life activity. That impairment identified with ADHD? Major life activity affected by the impairment was why it's hyperactivity and slash ADHD impacts his ability to focus in attend.

And this impacts his academic performance. So, the AIDS and services are programmable patients and accommodations that why it receives based on the plan. Is check for understanding to maintain focus and class daily throughout the school day. For a positive behaviors daily throughout the school day. Communication with Guardian. Brief report, indicating that his behavior was appropriate over the week.

Which is one sweet queen. Adult support and masteries and science five times weekly for 40 minutes, and adults support Ela for 80 minutes, five times weekly. And use of sensory tools, fidgets, tactile, and textured strips as needed daily for the school year.

Um, so look here from the teachers first to, um, see if and how the plan is implemented. Um, so I am Ez's case manager with a 504 plan. That's a general education, so I check on. The grades that why it would be getting and I checked the teachers to make sure.

Everything is going well, and if they they need anything and his grades have been. All very good. Um. They don't do a five-week report because the their kids are just learning. The routines of the middle school, and but everything was good. Mr furacran has been sending home in the weekly Behavior report.

And. Eden, you haven't seen any? Problems with. Yeah, find any redirection like. Top task is easily redirect with the prompted. Yeah, I wish you was in the classroom. So, he is getting much experimenting. The prompting. The behavior reports. Um, he has adult support in those classes I took to schedule.

And is he using sensory tools? Yep, I was gonna ask. You feel that you need them? Yeah. Are you being provided with them? Okay, no. You know about what's in your plan and everything?

First that I'm here by not having a sensory tool. Um, it's hard to tell, like, it's. Like, if anything, it's looking underway. Upgrade to adding response anytime. There's anything a quick redirection prompted, so it hasn't acted as great to anything. Why do you know what your sensory tools are, no?

So you? Could you name a sensory tool that maybe? Squish ball okay, love it. Good, that's good. Okay.

Okay, um, how about from the parents? Any fellow the information you like to share? No, he's mentioned that he's been getting, you know, bullied, and picked on. So, I don't know if that's. No then. Notice by anybody or not, but he's been. That's what he said happen Friday, and it's been happening a little bit before.

But that's really what led up to this was? You know him feeling picked on by a good brand, and then all that culminated online where you know? Swear. Yeah, action resulted. I would actually date of the last. There was a psychological done in 23. Is there a report on that and was that sent to the parents?

I didn't do that. Oh, that's psychologist isn't no longer with our district. Okay, so the report is where? We'll keep it in our CSC office. Yep, and it would have been on review during his meet English was in.

Those are done every three, the fourth battery every two years. Okay, so he would be due for one in April. Well, so when he had this re-evaluation, he had a special education IEP individual education plan. Yes, it's my understanding. It was then. At that point, he was given the 504 that Services were reduced.

Okay? In 2023, correct, um, let me just look at my. Um, I did a quick record, but the psychological the report would exist somewhere. Oh yeah, right, okay, I mean, I have one that I wrote all over?

Again, okay? I, I just, I'm just doing. Those reports are parents correct. At that time in 2023, it's psychologists okay. And parents come to meet in. Sarah can movement a hard copy. Okay, you know, I can't speak for Brittany and the last psychologist. Okay. Just, I mean, just. Well, just to make very good use of everyone's time, I think the concern here is that there's a significant field disability that's presented.

Okay, yes, he does well, academically, but I think what the parents are greatly concerned about is that there's something else here, something that just was not found in the 2023 psycho Bill or the battery of tests that were done. Do you know what psychopath which you used at that time?

Okay, so I think what we're looking at because it is a manifestation determination. Okay, the parents are greatly concerned. That why it possibly has either something or development manipulate behavior is very typical of that. Um. He would now present us living in the academic difficulties. The ability to focus, you know, it's.

It's funny because it's hyperactivity and ADHD. We always think that presents like he's flying off his chair. However, I've seen the kid do a puzzle for hours at a time. So, again, I think what we're looking at is is again a full battery. A full reevaluation of everything. Um, and I.

I think we might find that. Maybe he might need some changes in his current program, so that's where we're looking to go. I want to make very good use of everyone's time okay, and, and I love it, he's, you know, we sing his Praises. I mean, I love him dearly, so he's at delightful child, but um, there might be some, you know, some other some things we miss, you know?

So, I guess I would just like to. For this sake of time, what you're talking about is possibly having additional supports. In a plan. Well, I, I think possibly even an additional diagnosis. I think we've, um, inquesting, right. Weren't here for the previous meeting, but um, I don't think you really understands.

The depth of what he did. I don't, really. I think there are some social. And some. Yeah, I don't think he's he doesn't think that, like, he doesn't believe that. What he said means anything. Like he wasn't going to actually do anything. He was just saying the worst words that he can imagine, never because in the sound of that, and he knows that they're gonna hurt people's feelings because he's heard them, you know.

As unhush tones, I agree, kids says these words at one point or another. He took the worst ones and use them to great effect. And there's two scenarios, two, if we have, if he says, exhibited any of these behaviors in the classroom, their documentation of it, or anything similar, you know, there would be something maybe leading up to it.

However, on the opposite, we could have absolutely no evidence. And how do you go from zero to 120 like that? I mean, that language, I think we've all can agree, is, I don't know how many of you heard, but it's offensive? It's inappropriate. It's all of those things that we're all horrified.

However, how do you go from zero to 120 like that, so I, I think, the feeling parents.

You know, throw everything we got at him as far as evaluations and whatnot and and see if we can. Really get to the root of the problem and, and yes, there is. Some, some bullying, and why it? Yeah, we're getting. He was very invited. If I can say this, he was, he doesn't want to get his friends in trouble, so he's a little afraid to maybe, say, or admit to, maybe some things that were were going on.

Um. In the classroom. So can I? Can I just I just want to kind of clarify a school evaluation versus you know because you mentioned the word diagnosed? So, so I just want to just make sure everyone's aware that we really don't. We don't diagnose, correct. Yes, you. Would you have a doctor.

Yes, combination. We determine whether there's an educational disability that's negatively impacting the school performance, and so. So, it's possible for kids to have a diagnosis altitis correct and not have an IEP care, a special education service. Okay, yes. So, when we do our evaluations, where evaluating for educational disabilities and we can do that, and parents obviously are requesting, that's fine.

I just I don't want to. I don't want them to think it's something other than it is. So, that's why correct well, and we can slip whatever labels on it necessary, given the services, whether it be LD or. Ed, or let's do the all-encompassing OHI. That would be lovely.

Whatever needs to happen to get him the appropriate services, and then that would be in conjunction with the outside surfaces he's already receiving. So I'm sure the parents were being more than happy to write off on any of those reports so that the school can share because I think we are seeing some behaviors at home.

And maybe you're not saying them, and what is the cause of either of those. So, I guess we're requesting is just, you know, again, that full battery of testing the full psychological, the full educational, whatever risk or whatever you guys use here? Um, we would like to have that happen as soon as possible.

As a result, because again, I, we do feel that there's something else. What through a CSC, meaning you have to do like a rebound?

I'm sure the parents would be more than happy to sign in here. If you have those comes through our system, I don't have one here with me because it's all logged for date because their time lens that we have to meet so we can get it to, you know, time sensitivity.

How do we make sure that like all this is up to date too? Because, like this, is the wrong phone number as well. For myself. That's through e-school, so you would have to contact your registrar.

Yeah, I won't let you do it. I've tried you have to literally call me when I got your new, so it's well. Don't quote me, but I sent it to have it changed in these school, so everything is updated. And we as it changed on ours, our side. Okay, yeah.

Because absolutely. I want to be able to contact you. And you know, I had to go through. Yeah, she's Rogers. Remember to get all that information. That's you. Very helpful. That's why I appreciate you for that. Thank you. And I think that that gets updated through. Did they sending information project?

So, through the portal, like, you can always go in and update. Like, contact if you should actually go in every year event in the portal. Yeah, I have, um. He changed his number within, like the last, what month or two and I didn't, even you know. Yeah, I was waiting for the email from the person to let me into it.

Okay, so now the information gave, and like Dan said it to our. Okay, so it should. It's not updated yet. Okay, I can check your phone number. Is that what you're concerned about the phone number? Yeah, I just wanted to make sure before I left that everything was up to date in.

Here I have 716-263-5398. Yeah, it's 279-5742 has been updated as long as it's the one that you gave me. She does have it okay. But I believe, even under the current fight before I, I think we're suggesting. It's the behavior is directly related to his disability in terms of impulse control.

You know, social awareness? Because we're saying that this is related to the disability. Do you want to talk about the impulse control, but that would look like, well, I mean, I guess I, I? I'm not sure. How you come to them? Because. When you say social like, I did look through all this report cards.

I read through everything I haven't seen. Evidence of those difficulties in. In his records, you haven't seen. There, we go that you here. Like, I said he puts on a very good mask when he comes to school, so you guys see it. That's. Need better communication? Like, because that is a major.

Because, like, that's not even true. There is things seen at school, and this is a brand new school, though in elementary school, they're worth things being seen. He had to have a lot of redirection. Um. His one teacher was great in implementing things for him to. Move, so she would like have a fake envelope to sun down to the prince of all to get him up and moving.

Uh, because? He fidgets. I don't know if you can see it yet. In Middle School, he just started where he, like, cannot sit still. And that's where he's looking around. He will bother people. He gets in people's personal space. I don't know if you've seen that yet. At lunch time, a lot of the time.

It's when there's no structure, and so I didn't see some bus route buses the lunchroom. Um, and right now. From what he's telling me is recess, kind of a more unstructured. Space. That is another spot where he is telling me. There are things going on, I understand, because I'm not saying that his his behavior was perfect because none of our kids behavior is perfect.

Yes, we're student with ADHD with accommodations on a plan. It seemed that his plans have always been what he needs. Yeah, and we're implemented. So, so that's so we, we don't. You know, we give what a student needs to to help with their success in school. And, and that appears to have been happening.

So, I'm not really sure. Um, you know, I'm not seeing anything outside the extreme of what? What would we would expect of someone with some ADHD in the combinations that that's. That's what I'm trying to say. I'm not saying that that doesn't exist clearly. He was diagnosed by someone you know, I don't.

I don't have bad, except paperwork, because I think that was preschool, probably. Um, did you get the diagnosticism? Yeah, um. He also has additional diagnosis that, um. Where I did not hear. Twisted, um, he has generalized anxiety disorder and sensory processing disorder, so we don't think you're right, we don't.

I don't have that in the records, okay? So, you know, I don't know if you've provided us with that at all. It wasn't run through available. Okay.

So, if we're interested in disagreement as to whether or not this was related to the student's disability? Then, we're going to circle back, and we're going to have. The parents are going to request a full. Comprehensive evaluation before. So, if you want to table the manifestation, that's fine, I think.

But let's get, and let's make that happen. The comprehensible value, because that's why I'm not sure. I'm not sure what the parties agree or disagree at this point. As far as the manifestation determination, I mean, I think the whole purpose is to determine whether. Why anyone who was doing correct?

Okay. And he knows right from wrong, which you know, right, from wrong, right? And those words that he put out there based on. Dakota conduct. Is what we're making. The termination is that he will exactly what he was doing with the words that he used that caused us to suspend him and schedule a superintendent hearing.

He knew those words were inappropriate. Yes, those are words that we do not say in polite Society. I don't think he understands the extent of those words. Like I said, when you call, you can't racially slur someone who's not, like, so, the racial slurs were that word. I think you know himself the nature of the word, the harsh ending of the word.

I don't know how many of you have heard the regard recording? But the way in which he said it and you mentioned tone early in the very ending of the word was said was such with aggression. So again, either way, I think whether or not you disagree. I think the parents are suggesting that maybe this is related specifically to his disability.

If the committee disagrees with that, then I would like to kind of just circle back to. The parents right. Then again, we are requesting formally and a full comprehensive rehabil. Okay, so I want to go. So, yeah. So, for the question, the answer to the question, though, is, was the conducting question classified for directly in substantially when they do students disability and the students disability that we're using from the plan is impulsive.

And the hyperactive correct? And what we know about the disability classification. Is that? What we have saw or what we heard in the behavior that wasn't caused by being impulsive, but also the impulse control in the understanding of the consequences of is also a significant sign of that disability, and we, you know, based on our records, don't have any reason to be from the records.

I understand what you're saying, right. You feel like there might be a difficulty, but from the records, we have no reason to sink that he wouldn't be able to understand that. So again, that would I would question that, I mean, again, the severity of the comments. I would say, well, if you've never seen anything like this, I to make a decision based on this one incident alone.

You can't do, or you can't make any kind of change in placement. We're kind of requesting, I think we're on. This is a weird thing. I think we are requesting we want all the helps again. We're here to determine that. Why it knew those words were inappropriate. He may not know what they're the definition of those words were, but he knew that he shouldn't be using those words.

And he made a decision to record that using those words and some of the words. I would debate you why, because I know he probably knows what they mean. But the word that you referenced earlier? With him. He may not know the full meaning of that, right. But he knows it's inappropriate to use, but we also know it's inappropriate.

And yet, I hear a daily between, you know, adolescence. So, I mean, we can argue that nature the whole setting. Yes, you can't. It wasn't in a school setting even outside the school because he recorded this. Or other students. We're not denying he violatable. That is, that is what we're determining by whether, what he did.

What he did. Knows right from wrong? He shouldn't have done it. Obviously, I think we all agree with that. No, he didn't understand the scope of what he was doing. He knew that those were going to elicit some form of response from his friends. They were going to hurt him as much as they hurt him.

That's literally why, he said his tone. Everything was to get kind of hurts for that our the consequences. Unfortunately, what he's being suggested by the district. Yeah, I would like to know what has been considered. I don't know his being considered. We're trying to determine whether. This was something that was a manifestation, right or not a manifestation?

And I think we're incentives, not a manifestation in your eyes. Does that mean that you're just abandoning into him on health because we know he needs more help, but we're saying, no, everything that you said about getting CSC together enjoying? Reevaluation. That is something that is going. That's going to happen.

It's not going to happen today because we're making a decision on this, but you can't make any changes in this placement until that happens. For this decision, I mean. You can't make any changements in this placement until the rehabout happens. You can't discipline him in any until the reevaluation in the first place her 200.

So he needs to have that revealed Dawn before any? Well, that's the purpose of this meeting. Okay, determine that, so if we said no, if we said it's not a manifestation? Uh, if you disagree, you can do a.

Not that you cannot continue any additional punishment to that. Because parents have formally requested. The full comprehension of the valuation, so you cannot move forward. I don't have that in writing, we don't have. No, no, we have that in the law. We don't have this group. That, is that you have disciplinary.

We aren't choosing any discipline from this group. I said we've had a Roblox. We have just termination whether this was a manifestation. That's it. That's all okay, but we're not going to do that today until the full. Cannot move forward legally. Well, the school can still decide the school, decide if it was a manifestation.

We could see, that's the problem is, they're trying to tell you they can and leave them. I know that breaking the law, disregarding the civil right, giving us, is that not what that is? The the psychological that was done was done within your the timeline that schools do it.

So? The evaluation is, it's not a violation of rights. No, we know that. Yeah, but you're within the three years. We're not saying that. And this is the document that we would use. He's up for reevount. There's other factors. Um, that would influence that change of school. Obviously, the serious nature of the incident, what isolated?

So I, I can't believe we're kind of. I mean, we were all agree. The behavior was pretty severe, right? And they're set, absolutely. No indication that anything of this nature ever presented before. Well, it took along with that, if if it did present before, and we had records of that.

We would have like. That would have said that. Yes, that's part of his disability. So, yes, this was a manifestation. So, the fact that it was a single event? Tells us that we don't have record of it, so it wasn't, but we have record of it, but I'm like, I wouldn't give you record of it, like, either way, because that it just doesn't make sense.

Okay, because the pattern of behavior, it's only at school, you want to care about us decision when there's a pattern of Behavior. It's. Yes. You know, then we can see.

It has been happening, you just haven't seen it happen. Trying to tell you that it's been happening, like, do you wallet did happen at school, too? Like, at the end, like, right now, he's in this. Like, you know, honeymoon phase, it's a brand new school like. So, for you guys, you see this, you know, good kid, and afterwards he's gonna be just like he goes at the other school, or it's more and more of it comes out, and why does very much of people on the surface he will follow the rules?

If they are, you know, again, they literal interpretation of those rules. He will follow them. Because that is what you do.

Cards like there really isn't anything substantial here. Yes, a little inattentive here and there. We're not denying he's an excellent student. Yeah, we're just. We're suggesting that possibly you know again because he is. Older new school, a lot of Victors that might be. Influencing maybe some again. Some interactions between classmates, new classmates that are causing additional difficulties.

And yes, it is in in this environment. Perhaps he's keeping it all together. And then he gets home. And that stress is where we see some of it. So the parents I think, are very open and willing to share the counseling reports or anything with the district so that they can work together possibly on-site counseling.

You know, I love the envelope idea. That's fantastic, um? You know, additional, you know, or puzzle time earn, I mean. It's quite the Lego list, whatever it is, whatever behavioral months. What are the, by the way, the classroom, um, discipline? How do you, what is it? We, yellow, green, red, kind of thing, or what's?

How does that work within the classroom? It's really up to the teacher's discretion. Honestly, fifth grade. We don't have any like cards like that. Okay, it's really just up to the teacher's discretion. So, is there? So this is what the plus with I, I have to interject. Plus, with the teacher Aid that's also assigned to the classroom.

Yeh is responsible for doing some redirect. So the classroom teacher can keep moving out a little lesson. Otherwise, Mr folk Crum would be. Hey, Wyatt Wyatt, pay attention. Look over here, so the police will make it there for what for just like it's a district classroom age. Different classrooms.

Okay, so moves about throughout the day. Yes, okay. With the students that she has in her case. That's part of all right. So, if, why does fidgety in class the game make him up and say, hey, right here? This is where we got. So, is there a classroom management?

That's, that's my whole thing. He, in his plan, he is allowed to fidgets, right? And if he's fidgeting and everyone's just constantly redirecting. Why are we not giving him a fidget or something? Oh, they're really as needed. So, a little bit of fidgeting is very normal, and the last thing we want to do is, is introduce fidgets as something to fidget with, so if it can be, if it can be kind of bound without it, because that's like a stethos step forward.

That's like trying to get rid of, so using them more than happy to give fidgets and they really need, but just to give them. But again, can we all meet? Do you agree that something may possibly with 19 to 20 students in the classroom May have been? Missed, and maybe there's some interactions.

There's some social interactions that maybe. I would disagree with a smaller class of 20 kids. The teacher is in in charge. You have to adults in there, right? So if there's something happening? One of them would see it one, and then we know you do have a set of agree with that.

Post another server. You don't have a set of question room posted in your classroom. Are there? Is there requirement for a classroom management plan just, uh, we went over. Imagine the plan early in the year in the westside home. Okay, and like they're submitted to, you have to have one MFA with the district with your principal.

Okay, I would think they're concise. Classroom rules would be. I mean, those are those expectations are also giving out in class on databases like students, visual students don't exactly what to expect. Like, there's, but maybe they don't know. And that's kind of what we're arguing here, almost same without.

Like, in classes, the rules happen. To get all those more fans with the rules. I'm not listening. I'm just saying what would be helpful in this sense, you know, is posted classroom. Okay, getting all the learning modalities. Really need a reevaluation, and we're not saying we wouldn't do that.

Fantastic, but but I don't know that it impacts the changes. Our process a day doesn't change what we're deciding today. Okay, so if I make it, let's Circle back. What are you looking to do here that? Not, you're saying that it's not a result of his disability in the parents are, so we're kind of at a roadblock there.

So, then, what? What's that the district going from here? So, then it goes back to what the decision is. Okay, goes back to the hearing officer, okay? So, and then we're not an agreement, correct? Is that what you're saying they don't think that? You? You think it's a manifestation?

I know it's a manifestation. So, let me read. It says here, it says, if the parents of the student with the disability and the school district and relevant members of the student CSM cannot reach a consensus or agreement on whether the students Behavior was a man's station of the disability.

The school district must make the determination and provide the parent with prior written notes that this decision. The parent has the right to exercise his or her procedural safe by requesting mediation and or due process hearing to appeal just the decisions. All right, so that's what it is. So, the school district members are we in agreement that it's not a manifestation.

I'm saying it's not just based on what, why, it said. Okay, and then the other question. But why couldn't even identify who we direct racial slurs at, but he knew it was? And he chose to say that and the same way I should not eat a donut because I will gain five pounds.

That is, I mean, that's superficial. It's a tool, okay, it's super cool, is not but good or bad. What I'm telling you, though. If the tool is something that is derogatory, or you know, when you're, you're? Heart of Hearts that it's inappropriate to use, and you go ahead and use it.

Okay, you know exactly what you're doing, not a 10 years old with a neurodivergent brain ADHD. It was using those words to try to inflict some hurt because he never that they were end of that message. They were the words I would agree, response. I don't know if the intent was hurt.

No, it's kind of what we're saying. So, in other words, you and I could have a conversation like that, and I protected by the first fire. These, uh, words off at you and it's, like, well. Wow, I didn't. I wasn't trying to hurt you. I was just having a conversation.

Exactly. Yes, that is the first amendment. Oh, come on, you need intent. He was upset. He was not going to intending to hurt them. He was saying things that he knew people were going to be afraid for those words in any Circle. Any Circle you go to any sort?

I'm not saying he's not wrong. All right, I'm not. I'm telling you that, but I'm gonna try to make a point here is probably isn't going to change your your thinking. But I'm going to try. Any Circle anywhere. If you were to come out and use those words in phrase those free, the way you phrased it anywhere.

You would have police officers knocking on your door. Really, that would not be able to do anything to me. I think that the first it goes to like they wouldn't. If I, I can say a lot of things that I that are really horrible, and I'm not saying that they're right, or they can do it.

But if I say those things and don't mean that I'm just saying educational law. If you send a threat for understand internet, it's considered a felony. So, are you gonna arrest a 10 year old for not understanding instead of teaching them the right way to do it? Well, this is one of the Avenues that we have in order, and we're saying he needs more help and you're still making the decision I'm not having and not having the help that he should have began the school year with.

We sad heap showed up again it with. It's not even keeping it now. That was okay. We have to go by what the plan I understand, that which is a problem in and of itself, because all you guys, even under the disability there are, there's a range of symptoms, some of which are, you know, and things attract we.

I think we're in an empath here in that regard, so the district has to do with the district has to do the parents to believe. Um, I, I guess. At this point, you know, prove us wrong. I hope to God. There's nothing you know. But then, from that Pursuit, then what?

There's an evil little child sitting here, so I really do hope that something is found so that we can kind of, say, yes, maybe this was a result, but are we, I'm we're at an impasse here? You're saying that it's not result of his disability, the impulse control? Okay, we're saying, okay, well, we, the parents formally definitely disagree.

Okay, answer to is our agree on the answer to was the conducting question, the direct result of the school district's failure to implement the 504. Wow, yes, that the beginning that the plan is being called. Well, was it, though. I guess the fidget Spinners were not being. It doesn't say that he needs to have them at all times.

It's an ass native. You're following it to the closest letters because we don't. I know, I know, it's, I know, language. Trust me, it's that you guys, we don't use that on everyone that's chosen for him because nobody wants to to get him reliant on a fidget. If he's really do okay with managing, but if he's doing okay, you just cut him off, which is what happened, but he has the other classrooms.

There is no history of him. So, off task that, yeah. Well, yeah, that's it. Yeah, so, and this just happened. But wait, okay. This isn't my biggest problem is, I have been. He had an IEP in elementary school. And they kept reducing it because he's doing great academically, which he is.

He does great, and I have come to them over and over again about how it's frustrating for me, because. We have the bus incidents right after school. He gets on the bus. We have a problem. And then he gets home, and I get the brunt. Of him. After he's held it together at school all day.

After he. Doesn't get like the fidgets and stuff, right? Because it's per request. He's too scared to even say I need a fidget. I already know, who doesn't want to stand out? And then it comes home, and it affects how he completes his homework at home. In middle school, it's even having I've.

Um. His math teacher. Tell me he. I didn't do his homework. A few different times. And, and it boils over into the house into him, and I. It's just it's bad. The the violence? And I am tired of asking for. And not getting it. I'm tired of. We're talking, like, back in elementary school.

He's somewhat good for me, but he does the pretty much the same thing. Like, when I get away from Friday, it's a you problem. It's it's at home, it doesn't matter, doesn't affect us him academically here. So we don't care what happens there. And I don't think that's fair.

I don't think it's right. We could give you some resources places to go over. She's already I don't have school. We should. She accesses those resources. She's asked you for help, and she's repeatedly asked for help from the district. And we've reduced Services. So I think Mommy Services on mess the services in in the building.

You've got to be here and sitting at the table begging for assistance, and you're going to explain to me what the district does in these certain situations that is. Do not hear a mother's plea at the table for goodness sakes. Perhaps we could table, perhaps we could get this ball rolling into, you know what I would love for it all to work out.

And then, I guess, while we'll just figured out on our own, but perhaps we could do the other stuff the parental plea. This is not a bad child. This is who made a horrific mistake. Which I don't think in your mattering. We will be doing that. The valuation. Okay, no matter what the decision is, that's still going to be the next step first, all right.

So, yeah, but you're still going to say it's not resultant disability. You know, it's just. It's just that's the whole another process that, now that the family has to go, no, I'll call later. We couldn't do something different. Here, I I waiting expected this year. Let's get the meaning of August.

There's no. Since I knew it was gonna be so based on the planets. Are we in agreement that it was the school of the ERV agreement that it was? We were not to read out. Parents are not. Parents are not.

All, right, um. So, um, because the answer is to both questions were no, that behavior was not related to the student's disability. So, that means that during the first 10 days, this is mentioned in a school year. The student may be disciplined and receive services to the same extent as student without disability, but beginning the 11th day of suspension, the student will.

Continue to receive Arena Provocate public education according to their plan. And another thing, right? So, we're not making that decision today about what happens with the discipline that's going to be the other team. So, we'll conclude this meeting. I haven't had 10 days of suspension. That's my understanding. We've only had right, so that's just.

Um, do you want another copy of the procedural safeguard service?

Okay.

Thank you.

Know that was done with 23? And then whatever? You know you. I'm sure there's a secretary as opposed to calling. I have to go through Gateway way along you, and in China, release of information act. Okay, we are back on the record. It is 1031 a.m., this is the Wyatt Hurley matter we recessed.

To allow the manifestation determination to take place. It's my understanding that it has an incists concluded Mrd for the record. Could you please stay with the determination? Well, the determination from the school that it was not a manifestation.

However.

Evaluation. Before anything move forward, we want yes, and the parents made a formal request. For a full company or anything, it's evaluated right at the at the station so we could just have that on record here because they might meeting was not recorded correct. Yes. Okay. Um. Have requested a full evaluation.

You said full comprehensive evaluation?

Okay. All right. So, with that, we will move forward with the penalty of phase of the hearing. Um, is explained before. We can penalty phase is really an opportunity. For both. Student and their family, as well as. The district's represented to include anything in the rectar that you'd like, the superintendent, no?

Quiet person about. Know his circumstances, anything at all. And I know there's been several things that have been raised already during the hearing, and all those will be included already. Uh, but if there's anything in addition to those that you'd like to add or? You'll be on those. Really anything at all?

What I typically do is I give the districts represented the first word, and then I give the student their family to final word. Okay. So, Mr Gotti at this time. Is there anything you'd like to include for purposes of the penalty phase? No?

Okay. Um. Who would like to go first? I'm just going to summarize something like the parents have have. Express some frustration with the district. Um. That some of the behaviors not exhibited in school. And we were drawing a lack of connection between the severity of the incident and the lack of any Behavioral problems within school.

In the appearance or contradicting that by saying. Um. Did the district has been little to no help? Service that have been repeatedly reduced and then a lot of aggression and behaviors occur at home. Out of sight of the district. So that that should be concerning on either level. Either.

If there was a pattern of behavior that led up to this significant event or the lack of? Previous disciplinary. Actions that led up to the event. But Brittany mom expressed. A great deal of frustration. Yes, because she's been asking and asking and asking for help, and she felt that the district has been.

Not have less than? To which I agree. Cuz he's in a new school. I would look argue that why it is in a new school and a new environment. He was not given the proper services that he was, you know, entitled to and? Whole culmination of a bunch of events happen that caused.

You know event. It wasn't done in a vacuum or anything like that. So there's more than just one. And the parents are open and receptive to any assistance so district could provide. And. And they do not condone or support or encourage this Behavior in any means whatsoever. Mom and Dad are on the same page when it comes to their child, so the communication.

You know? I'll be. They live separately, however, their child remains.

Mr early. Anything you'd like to add? Miss Rogers, anything he'd like to add, no? Why is there anything you'd like to say for the superintendent, so she anything you want to say about either what happened or about? Anything at all you think. It's like your to know about you.

Sorry. Yeah.

The fact that you didn't know, we should say, that should be an America. Yeah, that he needed to be, you know, directed to say sorry because he did not have the social cues? You know, the capacity to understand that he should say yes? But it's very important. Thank you.

Let it show that he's also been, you know, bouncing and sitting not be able to sit still. This whole time, and he's not been disruptive. He's been very, very good, but? He's gonna get out and all that pent-up energy is gonna be. You got yielded. Yeah, the whole time we're gonna have so as opposed to a fidget.

Plastic following because he was chewing. It wasn't makeshift fidget spinner.

Is there anything else that anybody would like to have before I close the record? Okay. It's 1037 am, and the record is closed. As I explained earlier, what I do now is I go back to my office and I prepare, or in recommendation for the superintendents. I consideration. I'll include everything that was.

Offered here today. Everything record, um?

When does that happen so? Just give it today the fifth day. So?

With me that?

So hereby Tuesday, because there's no school anticipate the general. Are they looking to do home instruction provide home instruction? I'm not going to comment anything because I have no idea.

Um, so they have to educate it as. I mean, I don't want to speak on behalf of the district, but they're going to give them home instructions it. To be identical. So, for example, who wouldn't be in school necessarily for? Seven hours a day.

Um, now. This will happen on Tuesday by the end of Tuesday.

Well, women's decision is made of by handed down to the primary job. We don't have another meeting, though, no right, you just yeah, then you'll receive.

That takes a little bit longer, right? So what I do is when I know supermminal, contact me and say, okay, the decision. Which other parents. So I reach out, so you'll know verbally. And then the heart capital, okay? And also the home instruction that they don't have to be at home.

It could be like a neutral side, or I mean, if he's allowed on the district property, you know, you could do it at a different building. Then, he doesn't attend like the library or something like that, because that might be better to just he's, you know, you have to transport, but okay.

So, one thing I did just want to Circle back to is. There was a document that you were trying to email once you send it to me when you get home. All right. Okay, yeah, the only way I can print it. I can have it. Well, if we want to include it.

Remember, I emailed it to you. Oh, you guys sent it to. I desire my email to you, so it's there. Yes, do you want to allow?