That you were trying to email to Mr gabaldi that you guys are struggling. Yeah, I perfectly fine. I sent it. Yeah, like three separate times from two separate email accounts, so you got it. Here's what I would suggest.

I'm looking. Because they're not good service. Raise. Everything is so unlocked down because it's the edge. Yeah, so is it? Yeah. Like, I'm using my phone and not my computer. I get my email, but let's just see if some else came out.

If, how about this, um? If I get it by the end of today, I'll mark it as student as soon as I go back to my office. I'll get on my computer because then I can check my spam there. Is that what you'd like, yes, please? Okay. This park does received an armor because student exhibit too okay, consider it as part of the record.

If I don't receive it by the end of the day?

It'll be marked as student exhibit 2 contingent epidemic. How's that? Okay, okay. All right. Anything further. Oh no, that's not that. Sorry, yeah, it's sent at 9, 48 a.m. 10, 42 a.m. I probably got it, and I'll be able to get it for my lap. So, I'm going to go ahead and close the record again.

Okay, 10, 49 am, and we are adjournal. Thank you. Thank you.

We're gonna go back to the Google screen. What? So, we're done. Yes, we're done. We're done for today. You still have off school, but not for a good reason.

I just been picking up homework. And he does it at the house. As far as what as a Tuesday I am, I am. Trying to get a teacher that will do the tutoring first. As you say, whatever is in place will continue, and then, and I have something that's interested.

Okay. I'm guessing you will call me.

That mean ten times. All right. Listen to me. Come here.

Something I want you to have a good day today. You understand. You exactly what they tell you to do? We have some chores to do doing. And you know what be proud about when you do your chores in your face and then give a report out to your parents what you did?

Do you school work? Okay. All right, one more messing around. I'm going to stop at your house, okay?

Sorry, thank you. Thank you. I'll let you know, okay? I see you. All this for a second.

Which weren't gonna get? Thank you! Thank you for saying all the things that I have written down somewhere, like it was, really had three cups. I hope that because I wouldn't I, that's all, but I get you emotional. That's why I'm glad that, she says, I really, really was help very.

They did not like you, though, oh no. Well, we should be thinking, yeah, and I'm sorry, but I knew what they were gonna do. That's why I wanted it on the record. Our unwilling the whole fact is, it happens outside of school. It happens outside of school, so the bureaucratic system doesn't allow them if you bring a vape pen to school, it's all under the same classification.

It's all under the same. It can go to the Supreme Court if they keep it up. Yeah, and you see what he does. Instead of getting the fidget spinner what he does an adult, I do it. They're trying not to correct. I mean, I was doing it the whole time.

I was, like, I crossed my legs 70 times, giving him a fidget, though he's too afraid to ask. And they won't give it to him, give it to him. But like, he just yeah. Oh, I want his punch him twice. I think he's just, you know, what? This is the dad.

Like, he's not. I had to bite my tongue because it's like. That's what I mean, he oversteps. He thinks that are being like their parents.

When? When they do it, and they do what they, what I say, they're gonna do. I'm working. Appeal, I'm. No, but once again, how can you sit there? I like I. That's why it was, you can tell you fucking frustrated. You can come. I'm upset. And I brought this to their attention.

I don't know how many fucking times and it's always where we have our argument where they messed up is that they expected us. To the left us to out to dry with it, but then, when actually something happened, they swiftly. And, you know, deliberately? Punished him but didn't help us in the process before during her afterwards.

How do they not have it on record about his anxiety and sensory process? Dad is another issue they have records issues. That's why I called the foia request. I want every piece of information that they've ever gotten. They don't like that. I said that, I know. Submitted him. I know that, like all this stuff is done, I know for a fact that you've sent every possible thing that you could ever give to them back when we were together.

I had there's 2023, and that's the other thing is only three years, and it's less than a year output. Also, the biggest thing is when a child goes to a new school, whether it's in the same district or not. If they have a previous diagnosis, they are supposed to get a new one, so there's also proven the pudding.

Like, I said he holds it together in school, right? That's why I said. When no one's around recess, no one's around. When people aren't watching when there's no one there to see. He knows what it's going on, the same reason we know. It's good, like I know when eyes are on me.

I know when people are freaking, watching, and seeing what I'm doing like, I know it, but he's hyper vigilant. He just like me. Lipping through the crack because he's trying, and I've been. Fighting and fighting, and then they're, like, oh no, we're gonna reduce his plan now, and I'm like, I don't like that, but?

What do I do evidence of that which shows that we begged for help and then the first chance that they get to, you know, vilify him and say it's. Oh, this is an issue. This, isn't this, we've been telling you this was going to happen. You just didn't listen to us.

I'm going after the moment you have a parent. Sitting here, begging you that is on the record as well. And you want to say no, you want? Honestly, I feel like if the code of conduct wasn't the way the worded the way that it was, that's why I add, like the wording they have us on fucking wording, and that's what I hate the framing war, and I will fucking win this.

I don't give a fuck. I feel that they are going to extend his thing. Yes, I do. Yeah. Is there idiotic people? No, because you really scared the shit out of them. Wyatt, do you understand that what you did? And this is where the the principle was, you know, stupid, and not, you know, he was right.

What you did was very, very wrong. What you said? Did its job? And I hope you know that that you would succeeded way too well. You'd say, you know, what? Half of those words are, are? You know what that you know what nigger means? You know who it's set towards?

Who do you say it towards? I'm actually kind of glad that you don't. That's why I didn't want to tell him literally when you said it when he said, I don't know. I was genuinely proud. Like, I really don't know if I want to tell him like. But that's the thing is, he shouldn't like that word is used was used for slaves.

It's literally what they call black people slaves. Okay. That's what we call the little days called the property they were called niggers. That's why they called themselves nigga now to take the back the word as much as they could. But it is. Literally. When I say you are lucky that you?

I stayed. Sometimes I'm not, but I would never say it ever. To someone out loud or to somebody of color that I do not trust. That's why I say it to my brothers. Because I don't that I trust them, not to freaking, have a recording of me. Running around.

Everything that you say can be recorded now, and they can use everything against you out of context. Don't ever run for president because you ain't gonna win. They, they got, you know, have to have to population, you know. Now, it just has a reason to hate you. Whether it's true or not?

You do not hate black people, but I have on paper that you do, and I'm very explicit way. You said a word that would have got? Should have got you shot. Yes, you added, like, not even just that you added the hard ER. The full. They're like. I've seen people get their like, it's not.

People get killed over saying that work. Did. Ironically, white people can stay in front of black people and be perfectly fine. Hence, contact is everything. So, did you just never said it to them because?

I know the mechanism. You're gonna vilify me, so therefore you no longer care about me. I'm going to give you every reason in the world to hate. You think I'm a monster way longer than I thought, and it's not a like? Have this one, the one right there. I think she's dropping off some of the party.

The party stuff that got left, like your sisters little. And the table that we had. Oh, and the um, my other. What? Left. There was a lot. It's all in our trunk. Yeah, a lot of it. That was sweating. His son was in my face, all fucking time. I was so angry, but was I?

I mean, you could hear it. You can see it again. I would like shut down, but I knew that this was gonna happen. And you did a little.

That's why.

And if they give me, I'm like, it's gonna be bad. That's why I keep my mouth shut. Until I have like heart rocks and I do write it. They just gave me a whole lot more. They really, really did. The law works both ways. Thanks for telling me that you don't care about, you know?

Yeah, kids survival. That's cool. Oh, for Bears. Yeah, if you made a bear everything, don't climate tree because, yeah. Best kids survival book? Yeah, I know all. I know a lot of them. You know what I hate? If it works with this to regenerating, well, you're still in a meeting.

With all those. Yeah, people in this psychologist in it. And there's six against women. You have a set of parents here. We're there for not a happy reason. It's very daunting. It's very intimidating. Yeah, you know what they do? This is what you do. Get them outline. Break out.

Why, oh, because she loved it? Oh, good.

Mountain lion naturally. Really quick. Yeah, I know. This, yeah, look. It's holding on by a thread.

Well, Angela, I hope you were okay with everything I said, oh, no, I was. I was not. If you saw me, I was nodding. When I nod, that's, you know, me trying, not to say yes, yes. Yeah, you know it's beyond louder. Like, I can't stand when they keep saying always such a great student.

Yeah, we know, okay. Yeah, how many 10 year olds you know understand what he understands, but also can't comprehend other things? Is anyhow.

I don't know where she's going to want that.

Yeah, Gabby, if you get.

Right there. The the stuff is in the drawer, the two little screws quiet. You don't want to wake her up.

Yeah, right there. Try not to spin around sometimes. They can move faster than you can run.

I'm probably faster than the crocodile. Can you run 30 miles an hour? About.

It's the same bee that we're gonna attack me at the place. I think it's in your car.

I met in like the center like, it's like lives in your car. Or, you know? Stayed with us the whole ride. So?

I've snapped a lot before we have to go down. Are you staying or?

I thought you were coming Wyatt. Yeah, you're coming.

No VR. Ever. Not ever, you know, what I mean?

Well, if I'm in your room. Doesn't want you to even play it at all and says, oh, you were recording. You recording.